---
layout: post
title: "Announcing ROS Index!"
---

In 2008, the ROS wiki was exactly the tool that the then-small ROS community
needed. A central chalkboard on which all of the ROS developers could write
documentation, create tutorials, and even perform design reviews on ROS packages
(yes those used to happen).

> The ROS Wiki is broken.
>
> *- Jonathan Bohren*

In 2015, however, the ROS wiki has not aged well, and software development
practices have further evolved. It's plagued by slow page-load times, a
still-unsatisfying search, and a pervasive lack of synchronization between
documentation and source code. These issues make using the wiki hard, and
transitively, they make using ROS hard.

Back when ROS was first being developed, Subversion was the version control
system of choice, and as such, it was more onerous to incorporate contributions
from outside of the vetted group of ROS developed. Even when ROS moved to a
collection of Git and Mercurial repositories on the now-defunct *ROS KForge*,
there was no support for Pull or Merge Requests to easily accept contributions
from third-party developers.

The majority of ROS source code now resides in distributed version control
systems like Git and Mercurial, and "social coding" sites like GitHub and
Bitbucket have revolutionized open-source development patterns. These new
patterns enable us to put documentation right alongside source code
without making it too hard for users to contribute back. 

> I don't know if it's right and I don't want to change it if it might screw up
> other people.
>
> *- Anonymous Graduate Student*

Furthermore, by re-coupling documentation to the source packages, students can
feel secure in contributing pull requests which will necessarily get reviewed
before they can be merged into a repository's official documentation.

**Enter ROS Index.**

ROS Index aims to be the *definitive index* of all ROS software. It aims to do this
not only by indexing all known ROS packages listed in
[rosdistro](http://github.com/ros/rosdistro), but also include relevant forks
of known ROS packages, and encourage people to [add their
packages](/contribute/add_repo/) to the index *no matter how volatile or buggy
they are*.

ROS Index also aims to better summarize the pulse of the ROS development
community with [statistics](/stats/) and the ability to list the [most recently
updated ROS repositories](/packages/page/1/time/).

ROS Index emphasizes the documentation included in each repository's and ROS
package's README, and will encourage developers to augment their package
manifests with addition [metadata](/contribute/metadata/) including tutorials
and ROS node, library, and plugin APIs.

So explore, click around, and of course feel free to [contribute](/contribute/).
